# MKC - command line tool for MakeCode editors

This package includes a tool that can compile MakeCode (PXT) projects by
downloading parts of a released MakeCode web app and running them in node.js.

This is different than `pxt` command line tool, which is used primarily during
development of MakeCode editors.

## Usage

In a folder with `pxt.json` file, run:

```
> makecode
```

You can also pass `--hw f4`, `--hw d5` etc. Try `--hw help` to get a list.
Use `makecode -j` to build JavaScript (it defaults to native).

The tool is configured with optional `mkc.json` file. Example:

```json
{
    "targetWebsite": "https://arcade.makecode.com/beta",
    "hwVariant": "samd51",
    "links": {
        "jacdac-services": "../../pxt-jacdac-services"
    },
    "overrides": {
      "testDependencies": {}
    }
}
```

All fields are optional.

* **targetWebsite** says where to take the compiler from; if you omit it, it will be guessed based on packages used by `pxt.json`;
  you can point this to a live or beta version of the editor, as well as to a specific version (including SHA-indexed uploads
  generated during PXT target builds)
* **hwVariant** specifies default hardware variant (currently only used in Arcade); try `--hw help` command line option to list variants
* **links** overrides specific packages; these can be github packages or built-in packages
* **overrides** is used to override specific keys in `pxt.json`

You can use `--config-path` to build for a different configuration, eg. `makecode -c mkc-arcade.json`.

## Local development

This section describes how to build mkc itself.

* install node.js
* run

```
npm install
```

* start the build

```
npm run watch
```

## Releases

A new release will be automatically generated by the build system based on these
commit naming guidelines.

* **feat:** A new feature
* **fix:** A bug fix
* **docs:** Documentation only changes
style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
* **refactor:** A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
* **perf:** A code change that improves performance
* **test:** Adding missing or correcting existing tests
* **chore:** Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools and libraries such as documentation generation

## TODO

* [ ] allow updating `shims.d.ts`/`enums.d.ts`
* [x] add `makecode --bump`

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
